hey how's it going Dave 2d here so this
video is a guide a guide for people that
are interested in purchasing a gaming
laptop going into 2018 and it's
specifically for a gaming laptop so this
isn't super comprehensive and I'm just
going to talk about some things that are
important when it comes to the decision
process for purchasing a laptop for
gaming so when it comes to the art of
making a laptop I think manufacturers go
through that struggle where they're
trying to find that perfect spot between
price and performance and portability
and it's basically picked two of three
if you want ultra light portability and
really good performance it exists
there's some really thin tennety max-q
laptops out there but they're really
expensive so you got to decide pretty
early on in your process of how much
money you want to spend and where you
want to spend that money
so cheaper laptops country a little bit
thicker and heavier and they usually
have more plastic materials which isn't
necessarily bad it's just not as premium
feeling or premium looking but when it
comes to the thickness of a laptop
sometimes thicker laptops can have an
advantage because when you have a big
laptop to work with you have bigger heat
pipes you have bigger fans just
everything can be a little bit bigger
and those things tend to do a better job
at removing heat from a system so let's
take a look at some examples this is an
alienware 17 this thing is a relatively
thick 17 inch gaming laptop and it's
quite a bit thicker than the Razer Blade
Pro now when this thing first launched
this thing had a GTX 1018 in it's quite
a hot GPU and one of the issues the
thing had was keeping up with the
thermal output here's the thing when
this thing comes out of the factory it's
tuned just right everything is running
fine so the temperatures are acceptable
but the thing is the moment this thing
has any kind of like dust buildup or if
you want to play with this thing on your
blanket or like on your lap and you're
covering up the vents on the bottom the
thermals rise and it just doesn't do as
well the GTX 1080 on the Alienware still
produces a lot of heat but this laptop
is thick like thick with the CC and this
thing has just a lot more thermal
Headroom this thing comes out of the
factory running fine as well but because
there's more room in there there's just
more tolerance for dust to build up and
stuff like that so a device like this
because it's thicker he doesn't does
elegant-looking but it'll get you
further along when it comes to dust
buildup and stuff you definitely need to
take care of a razor blade Pro or
basically any thin and light gaming
top okay I want to talk about build
quality I want to go back to build
quality
so basically when it comes to how well
gaming laptops are made in 2017 most
laptops are made quite well if there's
more emphasis from brands to build
things that are thinner and lighter
because that's just what people seem to
want right now but there's still a
really good market for bigger laptops
the more durable they tend to last
longer and quite frankly thin and light
gaming laptops aren't for everyone you
definitely need to take better care of
them I won't talk about ports too much I
just want to mention a couple things
federal 3 support is something that's
cool on paper especially if you're into
the whole idea of like external GPUs but
in reality they're really expensive to
set up so it's not something that I
think you should really gun for like if
your device that you're looking at
doesn't have fundable 3 support I don't
think should make or break the deal the
other thing is if you're purchasing
device make sure that the exhaust of the
fans isn't on the mouse hand so I've
used some laptops that the fan exhausted
literally right beside your mouse hand
and your hands just getting baked while
you play and it's no good so avoid that
but otherwise ports are a pretty easy
decision okay let's talk about CPUs the
Intel you processors have just been
refreshed so the 8th gen you processors
are those KB like are chips those are 15
watt CPUs and despite what companies are
trying to tell you if you're really
looking for a dedicated gaming laptop
don't get a you processor get an H
processor so the eighth generation age
processors are just about to come out
and these are 45 watt CPUs that are
traditionally quad-core CPUs but these
new coffee-like ones are 6 core and with
the new coffee-like architecture because
of faster clock speeds and the two extra
cores you're going to get some better
performance now things like multi-core
applications are going to be
significantly better but well optimized
games should notice some nice boost in
performance as well ok let's talk about
graphics cards the NVIDIA GTX 10 series
GPUs were amazing for laptops they
basically brought they basically changed
the entire industry this whole thing
about gaming laptops was basically good
joke three years ago
gaming laptops were just they were
stupid you would pay huge amounts of
money and not really get the performance
that you would need to be able to play
the current titles nowadays you can
spend like eight nine hundred bucks on
an entry level gaming laptop and depends
on the game but you can float at that 60
frames per second target on ultra
graphics for a lot of games it's pretty
crazy like look at these games these are
plato's from Blizzard Activision EA
basically the most graphically intensive
games are able to run at really good
frame rates on an entry level gaming
laptop that's awesome
now as for what's next its Nvidia Volta
that should probably launch like late
spring early summer of 2018 so we got
some time but ask yourself do you really
think you're gonna need that extra GPU
performance like look at that chart
those are the games are you able to play
at 60 frames per second or more with a
$900 gaming laptop so yes voltones gonna
be better obviously but I don't know if
we'll really need that extra performance
because I feel like we've ready hit that
sweet spot
we're inexpensive Hardware can play the
best titles okay I want to talk about
the screen and if you look the screen is
one of the most important decisions when
it comes to making a laptop decision
because when you purchase a GPU like
when you've decided on a GPU and a CPU
combination it doesn't matter which
brand you go with performance is gonna
be relatively similar but the screens
differ a lot so my first piece of advice
is don't get a 4k screen unless you
really need it for content creation or
something because when it comes to
gaming you're gonna get better value and
just get a better gaming experience if
you spend that money on higher quality
1080p screen a 120 Hertz screen is so
much better than a 60 Hertz screen for
gaming you'll need to be able to push
out those 120 frames per second to
really appreciate it but when you do the
gaming experience is just so much
smoother you can react faster things
just look better on screen it's night
and day unfortunately it's one of those
things I can't show on this video
because you're watching this to 24
frames per second if you see these
things in person you'll love them the
other thing is don't be afraid of a high
quality TN panel now know traditionally
TN panels are freaking terrible they're
bad for everything let alone gaming but
the new ones are really good like Acer
MSI they using panels on their laptops
that just look gorgeous I would consider
those high quality TN panels
significantly better than most IPS
panels on gaming laptops so check them
out and just the direction of the whole
industry I think is gonna moving towards
high refresh rate screens 120 Hertz
panels look so much better look at this
thing the Razer Blade Pro this thing
launched originally with the GTX 1080
and a 4k 60 hertz screen so games looked
really pretty really color accurate but
they were only capped at 60 Hertz you
could only see 60 frames per second this
new variant has a GTX 1060 and
one-twenty hurt screen and I much prefer
playing games on this thing than the old
one it's just a gorgeous 120 frames per
second screen it's so much nicer to look
at so much more enjoyable to play games
on so if you're looking for screens and
your budget can allow for it
check out 120 Hertz screens they're
gonna be the hot stuff for 2018 and one
other thing if you do buy a cheaper
laptop like an inexpensive laptop if you
really want to a lot of them have the
ability to replace the screens it's not
easy and it's probably not covered under
warranty in fact it's definitely not a
warranty covered operation but it can be
done you can buy some really inexpensive
screens for like 100 bucks that are 120
Hertz and look pretty good so I'll leave
a link should I do it do it at your own
discretion I'll leave a link okay last
thing I want to talk about is customer
support and this is something that I
think gets overlooked in a lot of laptop
videos the whole industry in my opinion
does not have good customer support if
you look at every single brand everyone
has like horror stories of customer
support that they had with basically
every single brand except for Apple they
have like these million dollar laptops
that cost a lot of money but when you go
to the store there's a really good
chance that if you have a busted device
in the first year you're going to walk
out of the Apple store with it repaired
or replaced you don't get that option
with basically every other gaming laptop
company my honest opinion is that the
big companies like Dell HP Lenovo any
company that has a lot of big like
business accounts and stuff like that
they have great customer support
available just for their business
customers and they kind of extend that
to the consumer level if you're looking
for good customer support check out Dell
HP Lenovo Alienware they all have that
next a support thing where they try to
send someone to your door to try to fix
it or a parent and I've had mixed
experience of that some good some bad
but at least that option is available
smaller companies like Razer they don't
have that kind of stuff you have to send
it back to the factory to get it fixed
so if you're looking for really good
customer support well don't get any
cable apps off but if you're looking for
a better customer support go for the
bigger companies okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs we liked it
subs we loved it see you guys next time
[Music]